# Artist2Art
AI that turns faces into original artworks

# Why?
* This project explores the relationship between artist and art.
* If art is generated by an AI, then who is the artist?
  * Is the computer the artist?
  * Is the original programmer of the AI the artist?
  * Am I, the person who pressed the 'enter' key, the artist?
  * Are the people whose faces I used the artists?
  * Or are the artists from the dataset the artists?


# How?

Using the [Pix2Pix Tensorflow port](https://github.com/affinelayer/pix2pix-tensorflow) on a CUDA-enabled NVidia GPU, trained on a dataset of ~65 artists faces mapped to their artworks, this program can generate new artworks from the faces it's fed.

In order to complete this project I had to:

1. Install CUDA on my desktop PC
  * First attempt, it didn't detect the GPU driver
  * I reinstalled the GPU driver, it still didn't detect it
  * I let CUDA install its own version of the driver, but it still didn't detect it
  * I then clean-installed Ubuntu 17.10, which was recommended by NVidia
  * Finally got CUDA to work after that
2. Install CudNN, the Neural-network CUDA library
  * This is pretty easy, just drag and drop a few files into the CUDA folder
3. Create an Anaconda environment with Tensorflow and run Pix2Pix
  * Tensorflow did not detect my GPU at first
  * I later found out that my GPU is only CUDA-compute 3.0 enabled, and my version of tensorflow required 3.5. 
  * In order to fix this, I had to compile Tensorflow from source which took me all day to do.
  * After compiling it from source, I got a custom build of tensorflow for my exact setup, which I installed into anaconda using Pip. 
4. Get data
  * I manually scraped a bunch of pictures of artists and their art from Wikipedia. 
  * I attempted to automate this process with a Python script, but it proved to be pretty difficult, as each artist's wikipedia page had to be checked for a picture of them, and a picture of their art. 
  * I gave up and got help from a friend. We sat down and manually downloaded all of the images.
  * Next, I used pix2pix tools/process.py to normalize all of the images
